Job Posting:
Department Information Officer I/II (Telework Option)
Department of Health Care Services

$5,518.00 - $7,116.00 per Month
Final Filing Date:
12/15/2023

If you're searching for a great position in a high-profile state department, this Information Officer I (IO1) / Information Officer II (IO2) opening could be for you. DHCS is comprised of dynamic teams dedicated to preserving and improving the overall health and well-being of all Californians, and DHCS' organizational purpose is to provide equitable access to quality health care, leading to a healthy California for all.

The IO1/IO2 performs professional and technical tasks associated with a comprehensive media response and external affairs program to inform the public about DHCS activities and objectives. This includes researching and responding orally and in writing to media inquiries and requests for interviews, writing and editing external communications materials, such as news releases and talking points, and developing content for the DHCS newsletter and website.

The IO1/IO2 helps ensure that information disseminated to media is correct, timely and reflects Department policy. The IO1/IO2 position requires the incumbent to be an exceptional and versatile writer and editor; work effectively with other staff, media, stakeholders, and the public; analyze situations and policy/data accurately; take initiative and independent action; be willing to learn; and make sound decisions.

This position is eligible for telework. Please refer to the duty statement attached below and the "Working Conditions" section on this Job Control for additional information.

This position is a statewide recruitment, and the incumbent will be headquartered in the county nearest their residence, including but not limited to the following counties: Sacramento, Los Angeles, Burbank, Richmond, Fresno, San Francisco, San Bernardino (Rancho Cucamonga), San Diego, Santa Ana, and Van Nuys.

DHCS is California’s health care safety net, helping millions of low-income and disabled Californians each and every day. DHCS' purpose is to provide equitable access to quality health care leading to a healthy California for all. To accomplish this, DHCS finances and administers state and federal health programs, including medical, dental, mental health, substance use treatment services, and long-term care.

Completed applications and all required documents must be received or postmarked by the Final Filing Date in order to be considered.

Applicants must include a Statement of Qualifications (SOQ) for this recruitment. The SOQ is a narrative discussion prepared by the applicant describing how their skills, knowledge, abilities, education, training, and experience, qualify them for the position. The SOQ serves as documentation of the applicant’s ability to present information clearly and concisely in writing. Resumes do not take the place of the SOQ. The SOQ must be no more than 2 pages in length, single-spaced and using 12-point font. You must indicate your Full Name and Job Control Number at the top right corner.

Applicants must state their basis of eligibility (List Eligibility, Lateral Transfer, Reinstatement, T&D, or Surplus/SROA), and the Job Control (JC) number and/or position number in the "Examination(s) or Job Title(s), For Which You Are Applying" section on the STD. 678. Surplus/SROA candidates should submit a copy of their letter with their application.

The State of California is an equal opportunity employer to all, regardless of age, ancestry, color, disability (mental and physical), exercising the right to family care and medical leave, gender, gender expression, gender identity, genetic information, marital status, medical condition, military or veteran status, national origin, political affiliation, race, religious creed, sex (includes pregnancy, childbirth, breastfeeding and related medical conditions), and sexual orientation.

It is an objective of the State of California to achieve a drug-free work place. Any applicant for state employment will be expected to behave in accordance with this objective because the use of illegal drugs is inconsistent with the law of the State, the rules governing Civil Service, and the special trust placed in public servants.