Position: Office Technician (Typing)
Department: Centralized Psychological Assessment Services, Department of State Hospitals
Salary: $3,369.00 - $4,217.00 per Month
Final Filing Date: 1/18/2024

Job Description:
The Office Technician (Typing) will be directed by the Senior Psychologist, Supervisor (Director of C-PAS) in Psychology Services at the Department of State Hospitals – Atascadero (ASH). The incumbent will be responsible for the following duties but not limited to:
• Demonstrate interpersonal skills with a broad range of employee and public contact
• Applies computer skills, e.g., Microsoft Word, Access, and Excel; printers; internet skills; Outlook e-mail
• Keep abreast of departmental policy, and hospital rules and regulations
• Perform telephone communication, including scheduling appointments and meetings, and relaying telephone messages precisely

Requirements to be considered for this job vacancy:
1. BE LIST ELIGIBLE: Successfully complete the competitive State civil service exam pertaining to this classification at Office Technician (Typing) Exam Bulletin, OR
2. BE TRANSFER ELIGIBLE: Have current employment with the State of California in the same classification or in a classification that is comparable (employees who wish to be considered based on transfer eligibility must meet the minimum qualifications of the classification per DPA Rule 250), OR 
3. BE REINSTATEMENT ELIGIBLE: Have obtained previous permanent employment with the State of California in the same classification or in a classification that is comparable.

Minimum qualifications:
Either I: One year of experience in California state service performing clerical duties at a level of responsibility equivalent to that of an Office Assistant, Range B.
OR II: Experience: Two years of experience in typing and clerical work. [Academic education above the twelfth grade may be substituted for one year of the required general experience on the basis of either (a) one year of general education being equivalent to three months of experience; or (b) one year of education of a business or commercial nature being equivalent to six months of experience. Students who are enrolled in the last semester or its equivalent of course work, which upon completion will fulfill these requirements, will be admitted to the examination, but they must submit evidence of completion before they can be considered for appointment.] 

Additional Information:
This position requires you to work within the Secured Treatment Area (STA). The Department of State Hospitals – Atascadero is a secure public sector hospital providing inpatient forensic services for mentally ill adult males who are court committed throughout the State of California. Located on the central coast of California, the Department of State Hospitals – Atascadero is in the vicinity of destination locations such as San Luis Obispo, Paso Robles and Morro Bay, with easy access to beautiful beaches, serene natural settings and many historical landmarks.

Application Process:
Completed applications and all required documents must be received or postmarked by the Final Filing Date in order to be considered. Dates printed on Mobile Bar Codes, such as the Quick Response (QR) Codes available at the USPS, are not considered Postmark dates for the purpose of determining timely filing of an application.

To apply for this position, all interested candidates must submit a Standard State Application Form (STD. 678), with original signature, and indicate Office Technician (Typing) - Centralized Psychological Assessment Services AND 455-250-1139-001 AND JC-406842 in the Examination/Job Title Section.

Other Requirements:
- Valid typing certificate with a minimum speed of 40 WPM that meets CalHR Requirements.
- Selected candidates will be required to submit to a criminal history review utilizing Live Scan fingerprinting.
- This position requires candidates to pass a Medical Evaluation.

The State of California is an equal opportunity employer to all, regardless of age, ancestry, color, disability (mental and physical), exercising the right to family care and medical leave, gender, gender expression, gender identity, genetic information, marital status, medical condition, military or veteran status, national origin, political affiliation, race, religious creed, sex (includes pregnancy, childbirth, breastfeeding and related medical conditions), and sexual orientation.

It is an objective of the State of California to achieve a drug-free workplace. Any applicant for state employment will be expected to behave in accordance with this objective because the use of illegal drugs is inconsistent with the law of the State, the rules governing Civil Service, and the special trust placed in public servants.